i create and tailor a specific
set of templates for marketing manager
that actually have small amount of
budget
and small team or work for small
businesses
hey this is pmdena here i'm a b2b
marketing consultant author and a
speaker
i've been working and mentoring several
marketing managers
who have small teams and limited amount
of budget
i create and tailor a specific set
of templates for marketing manager that
actually have small amount of budget
and small team or for small businesses
there are only five slides again five
slides
it has produced a nice result for
my clients and i want to share this with
you so let's get started
the number one slide you should have is
what i call one pager and this
is very similar to the two pager i
talked about in
my uh seven key elements of creating the
best marketing plan for 2021 but you
don't have to make that complicated
for your team especially if your team is
small and you're working in small
businesses
and that this one pager is very simple
what is your business goals
what's your business objective
articulate that
and tie that with your marketing
objectives marketing strategies and a
key performance
indicators which is kpi and here is an
example
that susan and i created and susan is
one of my clients
and obviously she has a very small
budget and with the team of three people
and the business goal for next year is
to achieve
15 million dollars of revenue in 2021
and the business objective tend to be
very much
sales centric in small businesses right
so
is for hers company is about maintaining
growth in segment a
while expanding in segment b so they
identify two different vertical segments
they want to go after the marketing
objectives very much
align with a sales objective
for her it's about delivering integrated
brain strategy to drive
growth and engagement for a specific
segment
of course these two segments identified
in sales
also aligned and connected to her
marketing budget
she even indicated in terms of how she
would allocate a budget for these two
segments as you can see on this specific
slide the strategies are very simple
the number one is really about driving
opt in right
it's about getting the email subscribers
into her database
so it's really about build the brain
awareness by encouraging
opt-in and engagement with a specific
target audience
the second strategy is about delivering
the
mql to the sales team right through the
web
based contact information on her website
there is contact us and also requests
for demo
as long as people click on these two she
gets
credit right that will be counted as an
mql
and the other one that she wants to do
next year is to enable
sales via account based marketing so
it's something news that she's thinking
about doing and she wants to pitch to
management the kpi aligns with the three
strategies
that she set and opt-in is really about
number of subscribers
and in order to get a number of
subscribers she has to create content
so she also listed number of the content
pieces that she needs to create
as one of the kpi another one is web
based lead generation which is like i
said earlier
contact us or request for demo the next
one is marketing's contribution to sales
as you can see that highlight is new if
she gets a budget to do
abm which is account based marketing she
will take
that kpi on does that make sense so she
put that as
new and we highlighted that in a
different color
so now this is one page where you can
show your management
very easy they understand exactly what
you will do what your strategies are
and how that connects to the sales the
next slide is a dashboard
so rather than talking about in terms of
oh you know what kind of budget do i
need why don't we talk about
how are we doing this year so this is
kind of like a scorecard
she has over 200 line items
of the budget expenses the marketing
expenses
so i told her to categorize into three
buckets
thought leadership brand awareness and
dimension
her total spend is 220 000
she was able to categorize that into the
three buckets
without leadership is about ten thousand
dollars and she used that money to do a
lot of content creation
right and she set up goal for herself
to create 10 blog posts per month and
that's 120
uh blog posts per year and she was
able to achieve that or even go a little
bit beyond so that's green that's great
for the brand awareness it's really
about opt
in right opt-in to the email subscribers
and the number of subscribers that she
set herself to accomplish
is 195 new subscribers per month
unfortunately she gets about average
96 subscribers per month the total is
1156.
on the demand generation side uh which
is about one hundred thousand thirty
four hundred dollars
and it's really about the web leads
right coming from the contact us
request for demo she set up a go for
herself
to get 123 leads per month but
she was only able to get
about 90 average about 90 per month
so you showcase your success
as it is there's no sugar coating you
don't have to position it you don't have
to spin it
it's just the way it is right and to be
honest with you for 220 000
i am amazed how much she has
accomplished
and you have to understand that 220
thousand dollars is
literally 0.09 of a total revenue
the industry benchmark is 3 to 7
unfortunately that's only you know
that's the amount of budget that she can
get so
she mentioned in terms of like her
budget is very small
and also this kid outbound marketing
channels are usually linkedin events
webinars organic search that's pretty
much it
she only have a very small team that did
everything from content creation
marketing outreach analytics
events and more so when you have
information like this you can use this
information to calculate
cost per acquisition and then use cost
per acquisition
to project the budget that you need for
does that make sense so if you look at
this specific slide
right so we take the first uh the 2020
information which is your 2020 spends
at the second column and the kpi
projection for
the third column and then you can easily
calculate the cost per acquisition cpa
right if you spend ten thousand three
hundred dollars for the demand
uh for thought leadership content
creation and you created 140 content
pieces
you can pretty much set an average you
spend about 74 dollars
per content piece now if you project
to do 165 content pieces
and you also want to do some video for
the account based marketing that's what
susan wants to do
thank you a total budget that needed
based on 74 dollars per content piece
it's about 12 210 dollars
does that make sense so that's very easy
for
management to understand and you do the
same thing for the dementia for example
she spent about 100 thousand dollars on
the main generation
to actually get about 1080 leads
that means you know it costs about 96
dollars per lead so if the management
wants to increase the goal
of getting 2 000 leads then the total
dollars
to be projected is around 192 000
so there's not much of an argument right
with the management
it's basically said this is how much
money i'm gonna spend to get
a lead if we want the higher gold this
is how much money we need to spend
of course that you have to apply some
human judgment when you try to submit
the final budget
to your management so for susan you can
see as the last
column even though the cost projection
for content creation is about 12 ten
dollars
giving that she wants to do video
production for abm
and video production tend to cost a
little bit more
than just writing uh then just hire a
writer to write a blog post
so she projected forty five thousand
dollars in terms of content creation
and of course um she also uh increased
the demand jan
from 192 thousand dollars to 242
000 the reason is she and i had a
conversation
in terms of number of leads that needs
to capture in 2021 is going to be
substantially
higher in 2020. there are a couple of
reasons
number one is they wouldn't they are
they likely
not going to have any physical events in
that that's how uh uh you know
estimation
or guess and second thing is
everybody has some sort of zoom fatigue
or digital fatigue
chances of getting the leads the cost of
getting a lead is going to be higher
in 2021 than in 2020 uh 2020. does that
make sense
therefore we actually projected the
total budget for the main gym is going
to be substantially
higher than what we estimated
so she also want to do search a pace
search
so we allocated 90 000 and she wants to
do avm we estimate
90 000 as well so that total dollar
amount that she wants to pitch
is 640 thousand dollars that's to be
honest
that's a 3x increase from 2020 budget
we know that she's not going to get it
we know that
but that would be her opening position
to have
a conversation and all the dollar budget
in terms of how she calculated
laid out very clearly for the management
to see
so there's not much of an argument does
that make sense
it's more a discussion what needs to be
done
and then what i suggested her to do is
taking that 640 thousand dollars
and it created the next two slides the
number one slide is really
showcase the campaigns or the product
launches that she will support
from january to december what are some
of the product launches that she will
support
and also how she will do organic social
you know
across the whole year and if she wants
to do a pay search
right she's going to do that for a
certain period of time and
what are some of the key events or
virtual events that she will support
in addition what are some of the the
dimensional uh domain jam effort the
email campaigns that she will do
and maybe there's a couple uh you know
in addition to a website updates that
needs to be done
so listed basically in terms of the 640
thousand dollars how that will be used
for different marketing channels and
also a different campaign element
another thing that i told her to do is
not every single penny
on 640 000 will be spent
purely on the marketing promotion or
marketing outreach
some of that needs to be set up to buy
tools
to upgrade your website or to hire
um uh programmers to actually
add additional features to your existing
uh tools or platforms
right you have to allocate some dollars
to actually enhance
your platforms enhance your tools what
are they
try to write down those key initiatives
identify the benefits
and also the challenges ahead right so
that's
also part of the 640 thousand 000
so as you can see what i did is
pitch the total budget and then put the
budget into
the timeline from january to december
that management and can understand
also identify some of the key
initiatives that you will do
so that's pretty much it i told susan to
do
and she had a great great conversation
with her management she didn't get all
640 000
but she got some budget so i count that
as a huge success
so here are the templates i want to
share with you what do you think
are these templates something that you
can use
are you thinking about how to use the
cost proposition
to do a projection for your budget and
then determine what the budgets that you
need for next year
most important thing the things i found
it incredibly useful
is one pager do you like the one pager
let me know
if you like it please provide the
comment below i would appreciate you can
click
like for this video if you do that
it's going to help this video to rank a
little higher
so all the marketers can see it as well
and that will help my channel greatly
thank you to help your marketing skills
i create many videos like this
it's talking about know-hows and also
the templates that you can use
so check out my other videos as well
if you like it please subscribe and
click on notification bell so you can
see more of the future videos from me
it's all about something that you can
apply to your jobs
okay i hope you find it useful take care
[Music]
bye
you